# Review

This subsection contains a review of data and personal opinions that I have made
to complement this topic. This is not a criticism just for Proteus, but it is
also worth a lot for outdated and proprietary software like the ones they
usually use in universities for math and engineering.

Proteus is software for use in areas such as electronic engineering where you
can do simulations of all kinds of electronic circuits. This software has been
very useful for both professionals and students, although it has already become
quite obsolete and with high models of monetization because it has been on the
market for many decades. Personally, I have used Proteus in a basic way when I
studied electronics in high school, and lately, I've had to use it again.

Like all 90s software, it has at least the following design flaws:

- Only available for Windows and might work on other systems via software like
  Wineskin Winery (that allows you to port Windows applications to macOS). No
  web app or anything useful to do simple simulations, and keep in mind that it
  is also used by students.

- You have to download and install it like in the old days of polluting the
  Windows registry as if it were a real desktop app that requires system access
  to take its potential (and remember that it is also used by students)
  and you must also receive the download link by email.

- To install other packages such as Arduino you have to browse the Internet for
  pages to download working libraries which is unacceptable for the security of
  the user. Compare this to software used in the technology industry like VS
  Code or IntelliJ when it comes to installing extensions. I had to install the
  Proteus software on another OS due to a lack of confidence which is not usable
  these days, but keep in mind that this applies to all outdated software that
  is available for computational engineering or mathematics. Of all that list,
  Proteus is the most professional or accessible according to what I've used.

- All this (yes, the monoliths) makes you have to pay ridiculously expensive
  licenses and the trial doesn't let you save your work (saving your homework
  for example). This is very common with software from the last century like all
  those used by mathematicians who do not know computer science and pay
  unnecessary proprietary licenses. Proteus uses QT (not to mention the kind of
  obfuscated and old-poorly-written C++ code like the Telegram desktop app which
  is open-source but written in C++ with QT [^1]), now the firm certainly pays
  licenses to QT to obtain a commercial license for using QT without releasing
  the Proteus code [^2] and then not be governed under the QT GPL license for
  which the end-user terminates paying for this kind of stupidity when there are
  still better platforms and higher level and high performance like JavaFX or
  even Java Swing or Web Assembly which allow deploying proprietary software
  that is more usable for both developers and the final user. Compare that to
  modern software used in software engineering/development such as Microsoft
  products, JetBrains, or Google. It seems that all that money from proprietary
  licenses is not useful to improve the product, that's why we must support the
  open-source software that is backed by committed organizations instead of
  proprietary centralized garbage.

- The GUI and UX are pretty good compared to other software, but it lags far
  behind in usability these days.

[^1]: Telegram desktop app is open-source but written in C++ with QT under the
    GPL license [Telegram Desktop \| GitHub](https://github.com/telegramdesktop/tdesktop)

[^2]: GPL license provided by QT is copyleft which means it "goes viral"
    and the user must release their source code too

As I said, I don't personally see Proteus being that bad, and it's the only one
of the outdated software that, for some reason I still like. I've always thought
or wanted to make software like this for electronics since I am impressed by
what can be done, but I don't have the time and knowledge in the domain of
electronics to do this challenge, thus I suggest to other talented (electronic)
software engineers that it would be too good for the community to have an
industrial-level and professional simulator that is open source and modern.

Finally, a phrase that I really like from programmers or computer science
students:

> Matlab is one of the worst programming languages that nobody uses and
> you still have to pay for it (and many $$$).
>
> Source: *Popular opinion with my own style*

## Alternatives

Some online simulation tools have been developed these years. One modern IoT
simulation web app for making projects I found is [Wokwi](https://wokwi.com). I
fully recommended it for your personal projects, it's cool and looks nice to the
eye, it's also open-source. It lacks some or many things obviously, but it sets
a good example of modern applications and is also free, and usable with no 90s
bureaucracy.

More of these applications are being developed nowadays, I also have major
projects for other domains like mathematics, so make sure to research before
using archaic and proprietary software if you don't want to end up paying
unnecessary licenses. Commercial software is good sometimes, but it has to be
worthy. I encourage you to support open-source or at least free projects that
are trying hard to make things better.

Another astonishing  example is [Photopea](https://photopea.com), an online and
free version of Photoshop. I'm not against Photoshop at all, but I just need
editing graphics once in a while. Photoshop is not easily available for working
once a month because you need to pay a lot of money for the subscription.
Photopea is a great granular copy of Photoshop and you can use it for free (with
ads) on the browser for most needs you can have. If you're not a dedicated photo
professional then I'm pretty sure you can do anything in Photopea without fussy
desktop software requirements. Now if you are a professional editor then go for
Photoshop, but we have both options. Photopea has saved me in my professional
endeavors.
